>> Mike North: So the next layer up here,
and this is where things start to
look cool, is something called
a generator function, or generators.
So generators are great for
defining recursive algorithms.
And they can be thought
of almost as functions
that return more than once You can
think of it that way so generator
is this function star syntax that's not
a footnote, that's not like an asterisks
function star is not the same
as our JavaScript functions.
The way normal JavaScript
functions work is
you basically guarantee that
they will run to completion.
So most JavaScript programs
run using only one thread and
it could be argued that,
you could say all JavaScript programs run
using only one thread and some programs
involve launching other programs.
Like if you're using a web
worker that's a separate script.
You might argue those are like two
separate things talking to each other.
The coolest thing about these
generator functions is that,
we can pause local execution
within the function,
leave it and
then come back later and resume.
And that is what's happening potentially,
when we call yield.
Now, it's not happening here.
Well, no, it is happening here,
in that basically when we yield,
we are returning a value
out of an iterator.
And then when we're asked for
our next value,
we sort of pick back off
where we last yielded.
And resume execution again.
So I'm going to demonstrate
this again in Chrome,
but, I just want to make it clear.
Generator functions
returns an iterator and
the state of the closure is
preserved between next calls.
So for example,
in this Fibonacci sequence.
Generator functions and I'm actually gonna
give you this exercise to play with for
about 10 minutes.
The answer is right here, but I want you
to like have a chance to get your hands on
this and have tests that you can pass and
ya know experience
working with it first hand but
last my terribly named variables there.
Those will, that closure and
the value of those
variables will be preserved
as we leave this function and
come back into it, back to Chrome.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna use this handy
little snippets thing, which is fantastic.
It's snippets Let us write a little
bit of code, and then run it below.
Just hitting this little.
>> Mike North: This play button here.
So generator functions are much easier to
teach these days now that Chrome supports
them natively and we can sort
of just step right through them.
So let's say that we've got our,
we've got an iterative sequence of sorts.
So we can say function* mySequence.
And we're gonna say, so x is,
we'll just have it like, we'll have
it Emits successive powers of two.
Two to the one, two squared,
two cubed, etc.
So we'll call this exponent or power.
I'll start with one.
So this might look like an infinite loop,
but as long as we pause
execution in the middle.
It basically just finds in
a sequence of infinite length.
>> Mike North: Yeah I thought it was
Math.power.
My other complete here
is trying to trick me.
Okay, so if we've got this,
and we run that, so
now this generator function
mySequence is available to us below.
And I wanna set a break point,
actually sorry, let me refresh the page
here.
>> Mike North: So
if I've got,
>> Mike North: I
just wanna make execution
a little bit more clear.
Give myself some indications of stuff
happening.
>> Mike North: Actually I
shouldn't need all of that, but
we will, we'll just do that.
That's great.
So I'll run this.
My sequence has been defined.
So we'll say, let it equals my sequence.
>> Mike North: So
it may be surprising to some,
if these were a normal function,
what would happen if I did this?
I guess that's probably the fact
that may be a surprise here.
Most would expect that I
would hit this break point.
[SOUND] But I don't.
And the idea here is we've basically,
we've got the interator that
this generator function returns.
But until we ask it for its first value
it's not going to begin executing
code within the generator function.
If we call it next, now we're gonna
hit that break point, and we're
basically gonna keep going, keep executing
code until we hit that first yield.
We're gonna go execute that,
we're in this a while through,
basically we set up some initial Stuff.
And then we enter this loop that will
infinitely keep emitting values.
So we're gonna console log before yield
and we'll see that pop out in the bottom
of our console here.
>> Mike North: So,
I had my buttons, so that's perfect.
So I'll hit next function call.
So there's our before yield popping out.
And now if we're gonna say
step over next function call,
now you see the value just popped out and
we're no longer frozen at a break point.
So think of it as we've
stopped right there,
right where my cursor is to
the left of the y and yield.
We've frozen there and we are paused and
like I should do this sorry,
this is a more meaningful example here,
it's not gonna change anything
we've done up until this point,
>> Mike North: So there's our value.
And now, when we ask for the next value,
we're basically going to
begin execution on line six.
We're going to pick up where we left off.
And we'll be there.
And if keep stepping, we're gonna turn
around and go through the why loop again,
basically running until we hit the next
yield and then we've emitted a new value.
So this is a much nicer way of
defining an iterative algorithm.
And we have the potential here to
define infinitely long sequences, or
things that you couldn't
represent as a list.
Where maybe it's like 360 degrees
when then you turn back around and
go to zero again and it's sort of like
a ring sequence that you can go around and
round and round, right.
>> Mike North: So does everyone like?
This is pretty new to most people,
Python has a similar concept,
it have generators in Python.
But the point here is when I talk
about execution being paused,
basically we run in the generator
function up until we yield something,
right, and then, we paused.
Because we've just like reached
our first value and rekindled out.
And then when you ask the iterator for
the next value,
you go back in exactly where you left off.
And you emit your next value,
until you hit or and
you play forward until
you hit your next yield.
And that’s your next value.And you keep
doing that again and again and again.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So
when you,
second time around when you hit line 2 and
you have that variable assignment.
>> Mike North: That happens once, only for
the first.
>> Speaker 2: So all the signs only happen
the first time, period.
>> Mike North: Only because of the way
I've defined this function here.
>> Speaker 2: It's only because
[INAUDIBLE] in the while loop, basically?
>> Mike North: Yes, cuz when I ask for
my first, let's restart here,
when I ask for my first value,
grab my iterator, grab my first value.
So basically the rule here is,
you start executing lines of
code until you hit a yield.
And in this case, we're starting at the
very top of the generator function right?
And so, we're going to grow
through that first step there and
we're gonna go like that and
then yield and there's our value.
And the next time we do it again,
we're basically caught in this loop
that we're forever gonna be caught in.
And that has more to do with the fact
that we're in a wild through,
than the nature of the generator function.
>> Speaker 2: Got
it.
>> Mike North: But
this would look like a funky function for
sure, this would seize your browser up.
Except for the fact that, at every yield
that indicates that were sort of releasing
the value and we can just ask for as many
things of this as we want, until we run
out of the ability to represent powers
of tools as JavaScript numbers.
If I did something like this
>> Mike North: And we first.
>> Mike North: I'm
just gonna set break point everywhere so
we can see really easily.
So we grab our iterator.
Next is going to be frontend.
There it is.
Masters, workshop, and now we're done.
So the iterator is done once we reach
the end of this generator functions block.
For the end of the function scope.
And it is regarded as like,
we have finished, or you can return,
you can also return.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
and my linter would probably say,
what is that last yield doing there?
Like or in this case,
there is sorry I have to run the snippet,
there is our iterator I'm gonna hit next,
we can hit there is front end masters,
website
>> Mike North: And
then see how it says done true?
I wanna jut let it play,
but does that make sense?
So now, we said, when you hit return,
it's basically saying,
here's your last value and
by the way, I know that I'm finished.
Like if I ask for
the next value here, it's gonna say
>> Mike North: Well, it is not defined.
I might be in a different scope here,
cuz that's where my last debug of this.
So now it's saying,
as many times as I ask for
it here, I'm not clearing,
just See that I keep going there.
It's just gonna say look,
I got nothing for you.
It's almost like, it's just sort of a dead
end at this point because we've returned.
So those are the two situations within a
generator function where the iterator that
it returns says I got nothing for you.
>> Mike North: Does that
make more sense now?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah it totally does.
So one thing that was really nice
about the return though was that
the last object, the last time you called
next, it actually gave you a value.
And done was true whereas with the yields
you had to get that extra object with
the value undefined, and the done true.
>> Mike North: That's true.
So let me see if I can shed some light
as to why it works the way it does.
>> Mike North: Okay, so if we have
a situation like this.
So I'm gonna refresh Grab my function,
all right, there is our iterator.
So the first thing we're gonna say is,
obviously we're gonna say Frontend,
>> Mike North: Masters, workshop.
Now at the time I return this
next value here, True or false?
There is more code to run?
>> Speaker 2: True.
>> Mike North: Right, true, there
is more code to run.
So I'm gonna play this through,
and honestly,
we're still in JavaScript, right?
We don't know whether potentially
several lines below this line of code.
There may be another yield.
We do know we're not the last
line of code In this scope.
>> Speaker 2: Nice.
>> Mike North: Right,
or we don't even know that, but,
there is no way to know necessarily
whether after this.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Mike North: So, at this point now we're
gonna see no value returned.
But that last little bit
of code's gonna run.
And it's still gonna return undefined.
Or it's still gonna emit undefined.
>> Speaker 2: Awesome, thank you.
>> Mike North: Does that make more sense?
>> Speaker 2: It makes a lot more sense,
yeah.
>> Mike North: Because at a return,
you know you're done.
That is what a return means.
Returns, it still works in the way
you would expect it to work in this
generator function, meaning.
Within that function scope,
like you are calling it, the game's over.
Yield makes no such assumption.
In fact, it has to assume the opposite,
it has to assume there's a possibility
that there may be other stuff there.
Now a for
of loop will take care of that for you.
It will basically handle both
cases the way you would hope it would
handle both cases, so in this case,
if we do something like this,
then we do little more space so for
let v for value of mySequence.
>> Mike North: So
I know it's a little confusing here.
Let me see if I can make
it a little bit more
obvious,
>> Mike North: Cuz console
logs from within the function
versus from the outside.
So these are the ones here front end,
masters, workshop,
those are yielded out, and
that is being logged as a result of this.
You'll note that it did not attempt
to log that last value with this
little caret here.
It did finish the iterator,
it just basically finish the iterator and
decided that it does not need
to invoke that block expression
that is attached to that foreloop.
It will get the next thing and
it will basically say, all right, and
I ran this iterator and the values
are undefined and we are now done.
So you do not really get
another turn of this loop.
>> Speaker 2: Is that because it was
undefined or because it was done?
>> Mike North: So let me
see if I can express it a different way,
to make sure we're 100% clear on this.
So the second to last value here
workshop Right for the second
to last thing it pulled off of the
iterator was value of workshop done false.
So think of it as internally
within the implementation of for
of, it's gonna pull the next
value on the iterator.
And recognize that it is not in fact,
we're not yielding undefined,
that doesn't really make any sense.
So it will finish the iterator, but
you don't get another turn of the for
loop, right?
The interesting thing is if we do this
>> Mike North: Interesting.
Okay, so now we're seeing it expects
the iteration to behave the same way.
It expects the iteration to behave as it
does in the yield case, and it return
as regarded as like, so it basically
says when it see it's done, it is
saying [CROSSTALK] value was the last one.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
So the only way to really,
it's yield is really my iteration
functionality, not, yeah.
>> Mike North: You may want to use
return as a tool for as early termination
because that is a way to sort of say.
>> Speaker 2: But that's not my way to get
back to the function.
>> Mike North: Yeah,
so this hopefully gives some
clarity around this now, sweet,
because we are going to be playing with
this today And this is, this is a cool
new JavaScript language construct that
opens a lot of interesting doors here.
So as we saw, execution is paused, right?
Between times that we pull
items out of that iterator.
And generator functions and
iterators they are very closely related.
So this is great for defining
an iterative algorithm, especially ones
that maybe we don't necessarily know the,
they don't have a well defined length